# MODULE 2 CHALLENGE - The VBA of Wall Street


## Description
This project used VBA scripting to analyze stock market data across multiple spreadsheets. There are 4 scripts associated to this project. Three of those script focuses on the ask of the challenge while as a bonus, a "Clear Summary Tables" functionality was added. Each of these are represented by VBA buttons on the first sheet of the Microsoft Excel Project File(s).


## Functions included in this project are:
For your convenience, buttons were added **ONLY** to the first spreadsheet of the workbooks to demonstrate each part of the assignment request. The functionality of each button is described below:

1. **_Clear Summary Tables_** - bonus function to remove all data and formatting from Cells I to Q in all worksheets within the Excel file.

2. **_Format Stock by Ticker_** - button will execute macro function _formatStockTicker_ that will calculate the Yearly Change, Percent Change, and Total Volume for each Stock and create a Summary Table in Columns I to L of the worksheet. This function will also conditionally color code the calculated Yearly Change value: if the value is negative, the cell will be colored Red otherwise it will be colored green.

3. **_Greatest Value_** - button will execute macro function _greatestValues_ that calculates the "Greatest % Increase", "Greatest % Decrease", and "Greatest Total Volume" based on the data captured in the Summary Table generated in Columns O to Q of the worksheet after clicking the  **_Format Stock by Ticker_** button

4. **_Format All Worksheets_** - button function that combine the functionality of the "Format Stock by Ticker" and the "Greatest Value" macro functions and apply it to all worksheets in the file.

For this project, the order in which the buttons are used is important that is, the Greatest Value function is dependent on the creation of the Summary Table generated by the **_Format Stock by Ticker_** button.


## Files included
* [Test Data](/alphabetical_testing.xlsx) - Dataset that was used while creating the scripts.

* [Stock Data](/Multiple_year_stock_data.xlsx) - Actual Dataset associated to the assignment and the report.

* [Wall Street Stock Solution](/WallStreetStock.vbs) -  VBS file version of the code used for this project

* [Wall Street Stock Report](/Wall_Street_Stock_Report.doc) - Word document containing a snapshot report of this project as changes were applied to the Stock Data file.


